# IoT-Project
Final Project
### Smart home system

In this system, we intend at making a smart home from basic applications of IoT in home requirements. The major focuses of this project are:

1. Smart lighting system.
2. Smart door lock system.
3. Intruder alert.

# Smart Lighting System

In this system, we use the light intensity sensors, heat sensors, and lights as actuators. The setup of this system is set like alternate lights turn on and off based on certain values sensed by the light and heat sensors. The working process of this system is such that if the light intensity goes down below a certain pre-set level, the first batch of LEDs go on. Now, after a considerable anount of time, in practical, the lights might heat up, and operating these lights for a longer time in this heated state reduces the lifetime of the light. 

To overcome this we use another batch of LEDs which turn on once these get heated up to a pre-set temperature. Then, the first batch is let to cool down, till the second batch heats up. The LEDs are set at such positions that any one batch is enough to light the whole area. So, this setup helps in avoiding human intervention in certain activities, which can be automated. This system also keeps in consideration the life time and the operating temperatures of the LEDs, which lets us use the LEDs for the most optimised life span.

# Smart Door Locking System

In this system, we will be able to close or open any door from any part of the world. There are no sensors used in this process and servo motor is the actuator in use. The system uses the Blynk App to open or close the door. When the user wants to open the door from a long distance, he must firstly be authorised to do so. For this purpose, there is a 4 digit random code generated by the code, which is sent as a notification on the Blynk App. This is similar to an OTP verification and ensures high levels of security. 
The user has to enter this code in an already present text fields and press on open. 

If the code matches with the generated one, the door opens. If it doesn't match, the user has a facility to re enter the passowrd 5 times incorrectly. If he runs out of tries, the door cannot be opened using the app for another 60 seconds. In the meanwhile the user is allowed to open the door using a key or any other normal methods for securing doors. 
The advantage of this system is that the user will be able to lock or open the door from any place, for example in a hurry when the door has been left and has to be closed, this system can be employed. Also, when you lose the keys, this system is the best source for opening the door.

# Intruder Alert

In this system, IR and PIR sensors are employed, and the actuators are an LED and an alarm. This system detects an intruder through a doorway, by placing IR and PIR sensors on the either side of the door. If any of the sensors sense a block in front of them, they assume it is an intruder, and ring the alarm and turn a red LED on, to alert the people around. 

Also, if there is nobody around, the intruder still can be caught. As soon as any of the sensors sense a block, a notification is sent to the Blynk App of the user, and the user is notified about the intruder and intruder and can take protective measures. This system finds its use in security ridden applications like jail walls, or intruder through a prohibitted path and many more
